---
title: 'Lab 2: Reconnaissance'
updated: 2023-04-23 00:02:25Z
created: 2023-04-22 22:43:05Z
---

# Lab 2: Reconnaissance

### Quick Note on Reconnaissance Tools & Techniques In This Lab
- Since the remaining labs will predominately focus on an "internal", network-like pentest, some reconaissance tools and techniques do not directly pertain to our further testing. Nevertheless, they are extremely useful for the purposes of external pentests, web application pentests, and bug bounties. Please use this lab to get familiar with the concepts.
- **You will need internet access** to get useful information from many of these tools and techniques. That includes theHarvester, dnsrecon, and OWASP Amass.
	- You can try them with the Metasploitable2 IP, but they may not work.
	- If you do not have internet access, you can skip over them for now.

# Reconnaissance Overview:
- This lab will cover the reconnaissance step of the pentest process.
- Reconnaissance is when we gather data on the targets in our scope.

# Reconnaissance Commands & OSINT**

- ### **Useful Commands for Reconnaissance**
	- host hackthissite.org
	- nslookup hackthissite.org
	- whois *domain*
	- traceroute hackthissite.org
		- **-p** _port_
	- dig -t ns hackthissite

- ### **Online Resources**
	- [Internet Archive: Wayback Machine](https://archive.org/web/)
	- [Shodan Search Engine](https://www.shodan.io/)
	- [OSINT Framework](https://osintframework.com/)

## **theHarvester**
- theHarvester --help
- **Scan** on Microsoft, limit 200 results, source:duckduckgo
	- theHarvester -d microsoft.com -l 200 -b duckduckgo

# **Passive Domain Reconnaissance

## **DnsRecon**
- dnsRecon is an effective reconaissance tool that will provide information on the following:
	- Name servers (NS) 
	- Mail exchange records (MX)
	- Start of Authority (SOA)
	- Domain Administrators
	- Subdomains and more.
- To scan a domain with dnsrecon, type the following in your terminal:
	- dnsrecon - d hackthissite.org
- Type dnsrecon -h in your terminals to see all options for this tool.

## **Owasp AMASS**
- As the name suggests, OWASP Amass is an information gathering tool created by the highly respected cybersecurity organization, OWASP.
- In this step, we will use OWASP Amass to collect open source domain information on our target(s).
- Open your terminals and type the following: 
	- amass intel -passive -d hackthissite.org -whois.
		- The **-passive** flag tells Amass that we want to scan in passive mode
		- The **-d** flag tells Amass that hackthissite.org is the target domain.
		- The **-whois** flag tells Amass that we want to gather domain information using the whois command.
	- Type Amass -h in your terminal to show this tool's full capability.

# **Network Discovery**

## **NetDiscover (ARP Scanning):**
- Netdiscover is an ARP resolution tool that allows for the discovery of internal IPs and MAC addresses of machines on a network.
- Open your terminal and type the following commands (you may need to use sudo):
	- netdiscover --help.
	- sudo netdiscover -i eth0 netdiscover -r 192.168.9.239/24
- Go to your Metasploitable2 machine and ping your Kali machine.
	- Observe your netdiscover scan to see what this tool can do.

## **Nmap**
- Lastly we will perform our first Nmap scan. This will be a passive scan, as you will see in the steps below.
- **Important Flags for Passive Scanning**
	- sS - SYN (Stealth) scan
	-  o - specify output directory and filename (allows for import directly into Faraday)
	- Check out the description of this scan on the official Nmap website:
		- [TCP SYN (Stealth) Scan (-sS) | Nmap Network Scanning](https://nmap.org/book/synscan.html)
- Type the following in your terminal:
	- sudo nmap -sS 192.168.9.239 -o /home/user/Documents/nmap_stealth_scan
		- The -o flag tells Nmap to output results to the specified directory and folder.
	- Take the results of this scan and import them into the Metasploitable2 host established in your Faraday workspace. We will be using them later.
- **Once you have completed these steps, please move on to Lab 3**


