---
title: '3. Lab 3: Enumeration'
updated: 2023-04-23 00:15:16Z
created: 2023-04-22 20:54:50Z
---
# Lab 3: Enumeration

## Enumeration Overview
- Enumeration is when dig into the items we found in information gathering to see if we can find anything of value.
- We do that by taking potential leads from the information we have, and research potential weak points within them. 
- For example, if we uncover information on a service version, we would then go out and research vulnerabilties in that service version.

## **Enumeration Tools & Techniques**

## Nmap Active Scan
- **Important Flags We Will/Can Use To Enumerate With Nmap**
	- sC - default script
	- sV - version information
	- A - All/aggressive (optional)
	- O - operating system information
	- o - specify output directory and foldername
- **Scan**
	- **Standard Scan example**
		- nmap -sS 172.21.10.0
- Now that we understand these flags, type the following in your terminal
	- nmap -sC -sV -O -o
- **Upload the results of your scan to Faraday upon completion**

## **Nikto**
- **Nikto** is a vulnerability scanner that will accept a range of target inputs, including hostnames and URLs.
- **To perform a default scan with Nikto, use the following template:**
		- nikto -h "IP address" or nikto --url "domain"
		- **To scan a host-specific port range**
				- nikto -host [host IP/name] -port [port number 1], [port number 2], [port number 3]
		- **Scan and output information to a specific file**
				- nikto -host [host IP/name] -output [output_file]
- For the purposes of this lab, type the following into your terminals:
	- Nitko -h 192.168.9.239 -output /home/user/Documents/nikto_scan.txt
- Upload the results of this scan to Faraday upon completion.

## Enumerating MySql with sqlmap
- Upon review of our scan results, we can see we found a MySql database running on port 3306.
- We can use a tool called **SqlMap** for the enumeration of this database.
	- Check out the full functionality of SqlMap using 'sqlmap -h' in your terminal.
- **Flags we will use**:
	- **-d** - this flag specifies we are connecting directly to a database.
	- **-f** - tells SqlMap to use fingerprint mode.
	- **--banner** - tells SqlMap to attempt to obtain database service information.
	- **--dbs** - indicates that we want SqlMap to try to obtain information on specific databases.
	- **--output-dir=** - tells SqlMap where we want the file to go.
- To enumerate the identified MySql database with SqlMap, type the folling into your terminal:
	- sqlmap -d "mysql://root:@192.168.9.239:3306/" -f --banner --dbs --output-dir=/home/user/Documents/

## WordLists
- Wordlists are lists of string values that include common usernames, passwords and more.
- Check out the FOSS Linux article on wordlists below:
	- [Kali Linux Wordlist - What you need to know | FOSS Linux](https://www.fosslinux.com/48115/kali-linux-wordlist-what-you-need-to-know.htm)
- All wordlists in Kali are located at **/usr/share/wordlists/**
- In your terminal you can view information on the worldlists tool by typing:
	- **wordlists -h**
- **secLists** is a particulary great collection as it strives to gather the most useful wordlists from every wordlist source.
- We will be using wordlists for several steps in our labs, so please get familiar with them.

## Subdirectory Enumeration with Gobuster
- In your Kali terminal:
	- gobuster -h
	- This lists the help menu for Gobuster. Take a look at the options it provides.
- **Flags We Will Use**
		- u - URL
		- w - wordlist
		- o - output file
- In your Kali terminal type the following:
	- gobuster dir -u https://192.168.9.239/ -w subdomains-top-5000 -o /home/user/Documents/gobusterScan.txt
		- Keep note of the subdirectories you find, as **we will be using them later on**.
- **Once you are finished, please move on to Lab 4**
